To use the Angular
HTTP service, just to bring this back in memory,
I want to use it here to save and fetch recipes in the end.
So to use that, we need a place to make these HTTP requests. Now
the buttons I just showed you can be found in the header.
So there, indeed
if we have a look at our project, we have that header component,
here we have the save data and the fetch data buttons and there is our header component.
Now of course, one thing we could do is we could add click listeners to these buttons and then in
the component body of the header component, we could inject the Angular HTTP service and make our
HTTP requests here.
Now this has a couple of disadvantages - one disadvantage is that here in the header component, we have
the buttons but we don't really have the data we want to interact with. The data
we want to interact with are our recipes of course and these are managed in the recipe service.
Therefore, a better place to make these requests would be the recipe service,
though I'll take yet another route here which is optional though, I will create a new service for this
in a shared folder and I will name this data-storage.service and that is totally optional.
You could definitely manage this in the recipe service,
I just want to split this up to make it really easy to focus on that HTTP functionality and for
you to quickly find it if you later go through that project again
but handling the HTTP requests in the recipe service would be perfectly fine because we are interacting
with recipes in the end.
Yet here is the data storage service and there,
let's export a class which should be named data storage service to use that typical naming pattern and
we can again provide this,
we have to provide this. Now
first of all, we will inject the Angular HTTP service and since we will inject a service into
a service, we need to add @injectable.
You learned this in the services section and it is important to keep this in mind.
Theoretically, @injectable is optional, you don't need to add it to your services but you need to add
it as soon as your service gets another service injected, which will be the case here because I will
inject the HTTP service and in addition to that, here we can now also use that newer shortcut
of providing this, the alternative to adding it to the providers array in the app module,
we can simply add an object which we pass as an argument to @injectable where we set provided in to
root.
Now again as you learned, this is optional, you could not use that and instead add the data storage service
here to providers, just as we're doing it with the shopping list service and the recipe service and on
the other hand, you could of course also provide these services in the same way we're providing this
data storage service now.
Now with that, I already mentioned it, we definitely should inject something into the data storage service
and that something will be the Angular HttpClient.
Now as you learned in that HTTP module, for that to be usable, we first of all need to do something in the
app module. There, we need to import the HttpClient module from @angular/common/http. So this
import statement needs to be added at the top of the app module
and with that added, we have to import that HttpClient module.
So now down there in the imports array of our NgModule, here
maybe after the reactive forms module because I like to group all the Angular modules together before
our custom modules come,
so here, we can now add that HttpClient module
and this is crucial to unlock the HttpClient functionality in our application.
With that in any part of our application, we can use the Angular HttpClient, which means we can inject
it
and that's the next step. Here in the data storage service,
I want to send HTTP requests and I will do that or we will do that by using the Angular HTTP
client.
Now with the HttpClient module imported into our project, we can inject the Angular HTTP
client here and for that, we first of all need to import it,
now here, it's named HttpClient and we import it from @angular/common/http.
Now, I will store it in a private property named HTTP and again, this is this TypeScript shortcut where
by adding an accessor, like private in front of the argument, TypeScript automatically creates a property
of the same name and stores whatever we accept as an argument here in that property. And for Angular's
dependency injection to work,
we now have to set the type here of that injected argument to HttpClient, so what I imported
here.
Now Angular is able to inject this, also thanks to us unlocking the HttpClient in the app module
and now we can start writing logic to save recipes to our back-end and to fetch them from there.